With validation added, let's make sure we can update or save our recipe, so in the recipe-edit component.
In onSubmit,
I don't want to print the form, I want to do something with it,
I want to save it in my array of recipes or update an existing one,
so for this, I will need to change my recipe service.
Right now, it has no method which allows me to add or update recipes, so I'll add it, addRecipe is a method
I will need
and here I expect to get a recipe of type recipe or update recipe, here I expect to get the index of
the recipe I
should update and then add a new recipe,
also of type recipe.
In the addRecipe case, I will simply take my recipes array and push a new item on it,
this new recipe and in the updateRecipe case, I will take my recipes array,
take the element at the index I got here as an argument and set it equal to the new recipe.
That is the logic in the service for now. In the recipe component, recipe edit component
excuse me, we already inject this service,
so in onSubmit, I now check if we are in edit mode.
If we are, then on my service, I of course want to call the updateRecipe method because I am interested
in, guess what, updating it,
I don't want to create a new one because we're in edit mode. So here I will pass the ID of the recipe we're
working on
and then the new recipe.
Let's create this new recipe outside of this if
check, the new recipe simply is a new recipe, using our recipe model which you therefore have to import
at the top
and with that imported, let's configure it.
We actually have to pass all the data
this constructor expects, so we can access this on our recipe form, here on the value
we know we will have a name.
We also know that here on the recipe form on the value, we will have the description.
Now that's getting long, so I'll put this over multiple lines here.
The next argument we expect is the image path
and guess what,
we know that our value will have that image path because we configure this form and it's controlled, so
we know that all these values will be present once it is submitted,
also because we added validation to prevent the submission of values which are not valid and
here, the same for the array. We can simply use our recipe form, the value, which is stored in our
array, ingredients,
let's see if that is in the format we require it to be.
So with that, we get our new recipe, now we can simply pass this new recipe here as an argument to update
recipe
or if we are not in edit mode, we will call the recipeService, the addRecipe method and pass our new
recipe here.
As a side note, since our value of the form has exactly the format of our recipe model and the same names
like image path and so on and this is something we especially wanted to make sure and we focused on,
you can skip this step of saving it in a new constant and just pass this recipe form value because the
object stored here should have a valid format to fit one of our recipes.
So that is a fine way of then really taking advantage of the reactive approach we're using here.
With that, we're saving the data,
now let's see if that actually gets added to our list of recipes.
If we type two here, well I don't know, didn't change here,
if I type something here and I click save, I don't see it but we also don't get an error.
Now let's check, do we submit it?
Yes we do and this button is of type submit,
what's wrong,
do you figure it out?
We had this problem earlier in this course. It has something to do with our recipeService.
We add an updateRecipes but when we get a list of recipes, we return a copy here with the slice method.
Therefore this is not the same array we're using in our component as the one we're storing in this recipe
service,
so the one we're updating is not reflected in the components.
We can simply use the same approach as in the shopping list service.
I'll have my recipesChanged event here, which is a new subject and subject is imported from
rxjs/subject,
make sure to add this import.
This will then pass an array of recipes as a value
and now here where we call addRecipe,
I simply use this recipesChanged event here so to say and emit a new value, this new value is a new
copy of my recipes,
so that's the same approach as we used in the shopping lists service. The same of course here when we update
a recipe
and as I mentioned earlier, in the shopping list service, you could refactor this into its own method.
So with this added now, we can go to our recipe list component
which is in the end where we get our recipes and in ngOnInit,
I now want to listen to this event.
So on the recipeService, on recipesChanged, I will subscribe to that event and if it did change, I know that
I will receive a new array of recipes, that is the data we will get in this callback then
and then inside here,
now I want to get my updated recipes or simply set the recipes equal to the recipes I got passed here
I should say. That's an approach comparable or pretty similar to the one we used in the shopping list
service.
So let's save this
and now if we try to edit this recipe, put a two after the name,
now it get updated here
and now if I add a new recipe here, some image, that won't be displayed of course, just a test
and let's even add an ingredient, Bread 10, if I hit save, we see it here,
of course without an image but that seems to work and if I put this to the shopping list,
Bread was added.
So that is all working here
and the errors you see here on the right,
they simply occur because we can't fetch this image.
So this is our recipe for now working, both for updating and for new recipes,
now let's see if there is something else we should do.